CISC 3300 SP24 
Homework 1 


1. What is HTML? What does it do? 
HTML is a markup language that has rules to define how the layout and presentation of text and images should appear in a digital document. With HTML we are able to structure a webpage and the elements with which the users can interact. 


2. Access https://www.fordham.edu/. In your own words, describe how this webpage uses structure to convey meaning and navigation options to the user.
The Fordham University website uses a well-organized structure to guide users through key information and navigation options. The header features the university's logo and a navigation bar with links to important sections like Admissions and Academics, making it easy to explore the site. The main content area highlights news and announcements with clear prompts for action, like applying or scheduling a visit, which are prominently displayed. The bottom of the page offers additional links that users may find helpful.


3. What is an HTML element? Tag? Attribute? 
An HTML element is a collection of start and end tags with content inserted between them. Tags act like containers; enclosing content in the tags will transform them when the HTML is interpreted. Attributes provide additional information about the contents of an element
.
4. What does it mean when an element has semantic meaning? And structural meaning? 
When an element has semantic meaning, it is intended to convey meaning by its element type. For instance, the strong element. When an element has structural meaning, they have an effect on the structure of a page but don't convey any meaning by its element type, for instance, the <b> tag.


5. What is the default behavior when submitting an HTML form? 
The default behavior when submitting an HTML form is refreshing the page or reloading the page. Information put into the form may not be saved when submitted by default behavior. 


6. Create a webpage for a fake business of your choosing. It should have: 
a. an h1 element with the title of the business 
b. a p element with a description of the business 
c. a subsection with a sub heading and p element describing that section 
d. create an images directory and put a relevant image in the directory, include that image on the webpage via a src attribute with a relative path. 
e. a contact form which should have: 
i. a text input element for first name with a label 
ii. a text input element for last name with a label 
iii. an email element with a label 
iv. a submit element with a value of “Submit” 
Please create a directory called homework-1 in your local repository, include a .txt file with the answers for questions 1-5 and an .html file for question 6 on submission.